# Sentiment-Analysis
## Overview
The Sentiment Analysis Project is a Python-based application designed to analyze the sentiment of text data, I used an IMDB dataset. It provides a tool for classifying text into positive or negative sentiment categories based on the sentiment expressed in the reviews. This project is particularly useful for understanding the sentiment of movie reviews, but it can be adapted to analyze sentiment in other types of text data as well. This project aims to assist users in understanding and interpreting the sentiment expressed in textual data, which can be valuable for various applications such as customer feedback analysis, social media sentiment monitoring, and opinion mining.

## Features
Text Preprocessing: The project preprocesses text data by tokenizing, removing stopwords, and lemmatizing words to prepare it for sentiment analysis.

Sentiment Classification: Utilizing machine learning algorithms, the project classifies text data into three sentiment categories: positive, or negative.

User-friendly Interface: The project provides a straightforward interface for users to input text data and obtain sentiment predictions quickly and easily.

## Getting Started
Installation: Ensure you have Python installed on your system. Clone the project repository from GitHub:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/HarshitaThota/sentiment-analysis-project.git 
```
Dependencies: Install the required Python libraries:

```bash

pip install nltk scikit-learn pandas
```
Usage: Run the sentiment_analysis.py script to analyze text sentiment. Users can replace the 'IMDB.csv' dataset with their own dataset by importing it into the project:
```bash 
# Load your dataset
df = pd.read_csv('your_dataset.csv')

# Access text data and labels
texts = df['text_column'].tolist()
labels = df['label_column'].tolist()
```
To run: 
```bash
python sentiment_analysis.py
```

Input Text: Enter text data when prompted by the script and observe the sentiment prediction generated by the model.

## Dataset
The project utilizes the IMDB dataset of 50k movie reviews, available at [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/lakshmi25npathi/imdb-dataset-of-50k-movie-reviews?resource=download). This dataset contains movie reviews labeled as positive or negative sentiment. Users can replace this dataset with their own dataset by importing it into the project.

## Contributors
The Sentiment Analysis Project is maintained and contributed to by Harshita Thota.


## Support and Feedback
For any questions, issues, or feedback related to the Sentiment Analysis Project, please open an issue on GitHub or contact the me directly.

